It's the year 1987. Four month after the outbreak in a soviet state located at the Black Sea called Chernarus, first infection clusters poped up in Livonia's capitol Topolin after an accident with samples of infected blood at the TopoLabs Inc. (Topolin Laboratories), a subsidiary company of the Umbrella Corporation. It seems the company has kept this incident as a secret. A survivor and Ex-employee of TopoLabs said that it was their intention to release the virus and let it spread under the livonian citizen. Before he left the company he was working on an antiviral preparation for a virus called THRV85. The company hired a group of russian reservists who manipulated the connections at the "Topolin Centrum Telephoniczne" and killed the police chief and several livonian politician. 48 hours later the virus has reached every village in the region. The police still had working radios and they tried to barricade all important buildings in the villages against the infected.
There was a big explosion northeast of Radunin. Russian reservists have detonated tons of special explosives. Their goal was to kill all the infected they horded together at the detonation spot. This action had no effect on fighting the spread of the virus. Some survivors said there was still some goups of reservists in the forests out there who ambushed the convoy's of the last living livonian residents. It seems they found a way to use the infected to track down residents and their hideouts. Legasov, head of the Chernarus committee arrived Livonia after he lost the fight against the infection in Chernarus. He knew that the head of TopoLabs must have information about an antivirus and vaccine. Legasov assumes that there is a underground laboratory deep under the streets and houses of Topolin. He needs every information of the underground labs and the entrance to it. Some survivors promised to help him. They all use the radios from the police.
President of the Soviet Union Vladimir Butin declared the polish region Livonia as totally infected and has stopped all military actions of evacuation and decontamination. He said that its the job of the United Nations to help the people there. He won't take responsibility for the lives of his soldiers. CFOR "Chernarus Force" units of the NATO was commanded to stabilze the region and install a military airbase at Gliniska. In the last weeks some NATO Airforce units was shot down with russian AntiAir. A military transport airplane from type C130 suddenly disappeared from the radar. It has very important information onboard about the Topolin Laboratories and the access to the hidden hive. Legasov has been committed to locate the crashed C130 and find the documents, if it still exists. This is our last hope to get information about the Antivirus. He got a radio call from the pilot of the plane. It seems he survived the plane crash but is in big trouble hunted by infected and reservists.