Dr. Legasov, leading scientist at the Kurchatov institute for nuclear physics, was sent to the wrecked nuclear plant to investigate the reason of the accident and to take action of radioactive contamination prevention immidiately. One of his first actions was to make a plan on how to cool down the open reactor core and reduce the chances for a total meltdown. Legasov is also a chemist and did some researches by himself. He found out that some wild animals are infested by a unknown virus which is mutating in heavy contaminated areas of the zone. He believes that not only the radiation is causing the mutation on the DNA of the virus. In a village a few kilometers outside of Pripyat, a city 600km north of Oblast Chernarus, he could verify the virus on a man who was a liquidator at the reactor. It looks like this man was patient zero, but he left the zone before Legasov could talk to him again. The residents of this village said he went home to Berezino in Chernarus.
After the outbreak in Chernarus the Moscow Kremlin decided to send Legasov for further investigations of this pandemic incident. He found out that a virus infests the radiation damaged human somatic cells. The growth of this virus is abnormous. Infected humans die about one hour after the infection but their brains seem to stay intact for some lower level of actions. After 2 hours they already turned into a kind of undead bodies which are extremly aggressive and trying to maul and eat the flesh of thier victims. When Legasov arrived in Chernarus, already 20 percent of the residents were infected. Soviet military troops were sent immediatly after he informed the government in Moscow. The Chernarus civil airfield turned into a military airbase of the soviet troups who brought heavy equipment to fight the infection and to contain the spread of the infection, but it was useless. Hordes of infected overran the the military defense positions and roamed towards the airfield.
Dr. Tamarova, attending physician at the Chernogorsk Hospital, was treating a man from Berezino with inexplicable symptoms. This man came home directly after his decontamination commitment at the wrecked Chernobyl nuclear power plant. He had signs of light radiation intoxication and showed aggresive behavoir after some time and was constantly sedated. As long he was able to speak he said that a wild dog has bitten him in the right hand when he was trying to feed him. Tamarov investigated this case and brought his blood to the laboratories. At this time 2 nurses of the hospital got infected by patient zero. Both of them showed different symptoms as the man from Berezino. They suddenly raged in the immergency room and infected other people but were killed by a police man how was randomly present. 6 hours later more than 400 Chernogorsk citizen were infected. The chief of the "Chernogorsk Polit Office" then called out the state of calamity.   